# Predicting-NYC-Airbnb-Rental-Prices
## Introduction
Airbnb is an online platform for listing and renting local homes. It facilitates the process of renting without owning any homes. The pricing is usually determined by the hosts and it’s a challenge to determine the price ideally while maintaining popularity. Determining the price of a rental property is a challenging task for the host as it affects the number of customers for the place. Our goal is to develop a reliable price prediction model using a range of machine learning methods like Decision Trees, Gradient Boosting, Gradient Boosted Decision Trees and Deep Learning given minimal information about the property to aid both the hosts and the customers.

## Why is it interesting?
Since there are many rich features that impact the price of houses, it is fascinating to visualize their patterns/trends, shortlist them, and make reliable predictions using machine learning. Especially for new hosts, it is a challenge to determine the prices and attract customers. And, the existing hosts could increase the listing price, provided the customer base is retained and the pricing is rational. The customer compares the price across similar listings to know the worth of the current price. Accounting for all such different scenarios in a popular city like NYC is a challenge we are trying to solve.

## Process Flow
Simple regression techniques may not serve our purpose of creating a robust model. Since there could be a lot of non-linearity in the data especially with the features, it would be good to execute complex machine learning models. Furthermore, it would be wise to use Decision Trees as they account for non-linearity in the data along with Deep Neural Networks. We are aiming to suggest models that could account for all. 

During the initial preprocessing, we studied each feature of the dataset to treat missing fields, changed the data types accordingly and encoded the categorical features. In the Exploratory Data Analysis, we checked the distribution of each feature, the value counts of the categorical features and the relation between the independent variables and the response. Through feature engineering, we have calculated a few new features that can be fed into modeling. We have trained multiple machine learning models like Decision Trees, Random Forests, Gradient Boosting Trees and a 2-layer, 3-layer Neural Networks on the final dataset split in the ratio 80:20. Then, their predictions are evaluated based on Mean Absolute Error and Mean Squared Error.

## Conclusion
We have attempted to suggest best performing model for predicting the Airbnb Rental Prices provided we have limited number of features including location information, host information, customer reviews and property specifications. We found that Random Forest out-performs other models, and our predictions vary by $32.40 on average with the actual rental prices. We also found that the effect of addition of more number of estimators in the ensemble models is insignificant. Of all the features, Room type being private affects the rental price the highest followed by the location of the listing, it’s availability round the year and reviews mainly.
